>> Brian Holt: So
we opened our starter project.
I have a link there.
You ran npm run install.
That's all good.
Let me open this.
I did already open it.
So I have a little server here.
I have some deep thoughts.
Some of these are deeply funny, and
some of them are less funny, but again,
generated by ChatGpt, and we are going
to allow users, when they have a deep
thought, to come in and type their deep
thought and put it in, and then save it.
That's all the server does.
So it just basically
responds to deep thoughts.
And we're also, I put in a 20% error rate,
so that you can see what these look like.
That's what everyone gets afraid of when
like with these optimistic UI updates,
is like what happens if there's a problem?
And the nice thing is this kind of whole
thing kind of just takes cares of problems
as we go.
So I'll show you, but if you see
errors that it's intentional, and
I made that configurable here, so
we have a delay of five seconds.
Here, so
you can see the updates happening, and
this has an error rate of 20%, but feel
free, like while you're developing this,
you can turn it down to like 5% or
just zero, or something like that.
I'll leave it at point two.
Okay, so
let's build a UI that shows deep thoughts.
So open app.jsx here.
>> Brian Holt: And
we are gonna say export thoughts and
setThoughts, export, I don't know
why export const rather
= useState from react,
so we gotta import that at the top and
it'll be an empty array.
Our deepThoughts,
I I just called this thoughts, so
we'll just call that thoughts.
Const thought and setThought.
So this is gonna be actually what
the user types into the form,
equals use state, and
it'll just be an empty string.
And then async function
PostDeepThought.
We're gonna setThought to
be empty when that happens,
and then going to say const
response = await Fetch thoughts,
and we can give a configuration so
the method will be POST.
>> Brian Holt: Headers will be,
we just said that
it's a content-Type:application/json.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: And
body is JSON.stringify and thought.
So this is how we're going to get
thoughts back from the API, and
we're gonna say, just so that we can
really call out when we have an error,
if response.ok or if not,
if the response is not ok.
Rather, then we're gonna do the most
lovely form of UI that exists
in the browser.
Day an alert and
you're to say this thought was not
deep enough.,
>> Brian Holt: Do better.
>> Brian Holt: And then we'll just return.
>> Brian Holt: And then we'll say const.
>> Brian Holt: Thoughts,
newThoughts = await response.json and
set thoughts to be new thoughts so
I have it so that the API,
every single time reach returns back all
of the thoughts that exist in memory.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So I should say that we're
doing this just kind of the old way,
which is what users are gonna type
in something, they're gonna wait.
And then once the API comes back,
then they'll see everything, right?
And you'll see it's kind of jarring
that you enter something, and
then you have to wait before you
actually see your client-side
information show up into the UI, okay?
And then we're going to return div,
className = app, I forgot the effect here.
Let's go back to that.
We'll do that first.
So let's do the effect.
We're gonna say use effect.
And notice that this imported
that at the top, use effect.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then we're just gonna fetch thoughts.
And then I didn't even
bother to make this async.
I just did it with promises.
Then res.json,
then data.
>> Brian Holt: Set, thoughts, data.
>> Brian Holt: You could make this async
if you wanted to, but this was so short,
I was like, no, I'm just gonna
do this directly with promises.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, empty array.
We're only gonna run this
at the beginning, and
then now we can do our markup.
Return div,
className = "app" and
h1 Deep Thoughts.
This was in, but
I had just watched the latest SNL, and
they had deep thoughts with Jack Handy.
Does anyone remember those?
I loved those when I was a kid,
and so that's what inspired these.
form on submit,
we'll do a function here.
And e.preventDefault as you do, cuz you
don't want to actually submit the page.
And then you will do a postDeepThought.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then we'll
have a label htmlForThought.
What's on your mind?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then you'll have a text area.
>> Brian Holt: id = thought.
name = thought.
>> Brian Holt: Rows = 5.
>> Brian Holt: Calls = 33 just think I
messed around with these a little bit
until they got right.
value = thought and
on change = e setThought,
e.target.value.
I think that's it for that.
Yep, then we'll have
a button type = submit.
>> Brian Holt: You could put
something like here, like submit or
direct my thoughts into the ether,
up to you.
It depends on how deep you
want to get with this, okay?
And then after that, we're just going
to have a UL of all of our thoughts.
So thoughts.map.
And then you'll have thought and index.
And then we will have that return an Li
with a key of thought and thought.
Actually, no, I'm thinking technically
these thoughts don't have to be unique,
so you probably just want to do this
with index either or though, okay?.
>> Brian Holt: So I don't think anything
here just looks particularly surprising,
but let's see how we do
let's open our app here.
Are we running our server?
We're not running our server.
Make sure you're on your server, and
NPM run dev you need dev server first, and
then I need to open another one and
say, NPM run dev client.
Okay, now we should be able to run this.
So, deep thoughts, what's on your mind,
and some of these are quite funny.
This one really caught me.
If debugging is the process
of removing bugs, and
programming must be
the process of adding them.
I'm an excellent programmer.
Some of these are funny,
some of them are not.
I thought the world was cruel and unfair,
then I tried to vertically
center a div cool.
So, if I put like LOL or
something like that in here, and
I say direct my thoughts into the ether.
Notice it's just gonna sit there for
a while, and
then eventually it's gonna show up.
Here, that thought wasn't
deep enough try that again.
>> Brian Holt: Wow, what did I do here?
I must have said this to be setThought,
right?
And it's actually supposed
to be setThoughts.
That's hilarious [LAUGH].
So line 21 here.
Make sure inside of your post
deepThought that this is supposed to
be I put set thought here
you're supposed to setThoughts.
The dangers of calling these
the same thing, right?
This is not the first
time this happened to me.
Okay, let me try that again.
>> Brian Holt: One sentence is gonna work.
20% it could happen
pretty much of the time.
Yeah, there it is, right?
So then it eventually shows up there.
So, we can absolutely
engineer around this, right?
We could optimistically ourselves
add it into the thoughts, and
then if there's an error case,
then we go back and remove it, right?
I'm sure you're Function,
you're going through your head of like,
how could I do this without
additional machinery?
I'm gonna show you how to make this a bit
easier with the use of use optimistic.